Credit Cards 

Loans 

Banking 

Mortgages 

Insurance 

Credit Monitoring 

Personal Finance 

Small Business 

Taxes 

Help for Low Credit Scores 

Investing 

SELECT 

All Credit Cards 

Find the Credit Card for You 

Best Credit Cards 

Best Rewards Credit Cards 

Best Travel Credit Cards 

Best 0% APR Credit Cards 

Best Balance Transfer Credit Cards 

Best Cash Back Credit Cards 

Best Credit Card Welcome Bonuses 

Best Credit Cards to Build Credit 

SELECT 

All Loans 

Find the Best Personal Loan for You 

Best Personal Loans 

Best Debt Consolidation Loans 

Best Loans to Refinance Credit Card Debt 

Best Loans with Fast Funding 

Best Small Personal Loans 

Best Large Personal Loans 

Best Personal Loans to Apply Online 

Best Student Loan Refinance 

SELECT 

All Banking 

Find the Savings Account for You 

Best High Yield Savings Accounts 

Best Big Bank Savings Accounts 

Best Big Bank Checking Accounts 

Best No Fee Checking Accounts 

No Overdraft Fee Checking Accounts 

Best Checking Account Bonuses 

Best Money Market Accounts 

Best CDs 

Best Credit Unions 

SELECT 

All Mortgages 

Best Mortgages 

Best Mortgages for Small Down Payment 

Best Mortgages for No Down Payment 

Best Mortgages with No Origination Fee 

Best Mortgages for Average Credit Score 

Adjustable Rate Mortgages 

Affording a Mortgage 

SELECT 

All Insurance 

Best Life Insurance 

Best Homeowners Insurance 

Best Renters Insurance 

Best Car Insurance 

Travel Insurance 

SELECT 

All Credit Monitoring 

Best Credit Monitoring Services 

Best Identity Theft Protection 

How to Boost Your Credit Score 

Credit Repair Services 

SELECT 

All Personal Finance 

Best Budgeting Apps 

Best Expense Tracker Apps 

Best Money Transfer Apps 

Best Resale Apps and Sites 

Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) Apps 

Best Debt Relief 

SELECT 

All Small Business 

Best Small Business Savings Accounts 

Best Small Business Checking Accounts 

Best Credit Cards for Small Business 

Best Small Business Loans 

Best Tax Software for Small Business 

SELECT 

All Taxes 

Best Tax Software 

Best Tax Software for Small Businesses 

Tax Refunds 

SELECT 

All Help for Low Credit Scores 

Best Credit Cards for Bad Credit 

Best Personal Loans for Bad Credit 

Best Debt Consolidation Loans for Bad Credit 

Personal Loans if You Don't Have Credit 

Best Credit Cards for Building Credit 

Personal Loans for 580 Credit Score or Lower 

Personal Loans for 670 Credit Score or Lower 

Best Mortgages for Bad Credit 

Best Hardship Loans 

How to Boost Your Credit Score 

SELECT 

All Investing 

Best IRA Accounts 

Best Roth IRA Accounts 

Best Investing Apps 

Best Free Stock Trading Platforms 

Best Robo-Advisors 

Index Funds 

Mutual Funds 

ETFs 

Bonds 

 

In this article 

UPS plans to hire more than 100,000 seasonal workers again this year to support the holiday shipping rush, the company announced Tuesday in a press release. This year, though, they'll be starting with a higher pay. 

As a result of a contract agreement with the Teamsters union that was ratified in August, seasonal workers' pay will start between $21 and $23 per hour, depending on the position.  

The Teamsters deal with UPS comes as workers from pilots to aerospace manufacturing employees have pushed for and won higher pay. 

Package handlers and driver helpers will make $21 per hour, while delivery and tractor-trailer drivers will make $23 per hour during the holiday season, a UPS spokesperson said. Last year, package handlers' starting pay was $15.50 per hour and delivery drivers made a minimum of $21 per hour. 

The company said it is hiring both full- and part-time positions, primarily drivers and package handlers. Some permanent positions are also available.  

"We're proud to offer industry-leading pay for UPS part-timers, full-timers and seasonal employees alike," Nando Cesarone, UPS' executive vice president, said in the release. "We're looking forward to delivering yet another leading on-time performance this holiday season and helping thousands of workers kick off their UPS careers in the process." 

Nearly 80% of the company's seasonal positions do not require an interview, UPS said in the release. 

The carrier hired the same number of seasonal workers in 2022. 

Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. 

Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox 

Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services.  

© 2023 CNBC LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Division of NBCUniversal 

Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. 

Data also provided by  
