



Epic Games, which makes Fortnite, one of the world's most successful video games, is cutting 870 jobs - around 16% of its workforce.
It is also selling Bandcamp, the online music site it acquired just last year.
In a memo to staff, Epic said it had tried to cut costs but was still "spending way more money than we earn".
"We concluded that layoffs are the only way, and that doing them now and on this scale will stabilize our finances," CEO Tim Sweeney wrote.
"Epic folks around the world have been making ongoing efforts to reduce costs, including moving to net zero hiring and cutting operating spend on things like marketing and events.
"But we still ended up far short of financial sustainability."
He said that Bandcamp was joining Songtradr, a music marketplace company supporting artists.
Bandcamp made its name as a place where independent artists could make a better return on their music than streaming platforms so its purchase by Epic in 2022 raised eyebrows, with some questioning how the two businesses would fit together.
This announcement suggests those doubts were well founded.
Epic has offices around the world, including in the UK. It is not yet known where the job cuts will fall.
But Mr Sweeney said the posts were being shed "without breaking development or our core lines of businesses".
He added that about two-thirds of the layoffs were in teams "outside of core development".
Epic is also known for its gaming engine, Unreal Engine, which powers a number of successful titles including Fortnite and Gears of War.
Fortnite is hugely popular worldwide, with an estimated 400 million registered users.
Parents offered refunds for Fortnite purchases
Fortnite shooting event added to esports Olympics
Children stopped sleeping to play Fortnite - lawsuit
Potter stars among tributes to Sir Michael Gambon
A QAnon 'queen' and the town that wants her gone
Boy, 16, arrested after Hadrian's Wall tree felled
Russians queue up to see Barbie despite sanctions
Rina Sawayama: Therapy made me realise I was groomed at 17
The man who buys people out of prison
Drag Race UK queens on being accepted in Britain
The staggering pay of US auto CEOs
Iraq wedding fire: 'It was like Hell's doors opened'
The man who transformed a barren island
Armenians rush to help Karabakh â
Could cannabis help with Ukraine's veteran crisis?
Are we at the brink of a 'bug-pocalypse'? VideoAre we at the brink of a 'bug-pocalypse'?
A 'beach towel revolt' sweeping Greece
The rise of 'finfluencers'
Â© 2023 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.